[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Could an ancient human
species still be alive deep
in the forests of Indonesia?
An award-winning anthropologist
thinks that might be the case.
This is "Gaia News."
[THEME MUSIC]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
On the Indonesian
island of Flores,
some locals tell tales of an
animal that is like a human,
but is not human.
Some say they are extinct.
Others claim to have seen
them with their own eyes.
Anthropologist
Gregory Forth, who
lived with and
studied the people
of the island for decades,
calls this creature the Apeman.
For years, it was an
interesting story.
But, as many anthropologists
will tell you,
stories like this are
often allegory or a way
to explain the natural world.
But, in 2004, the
anthropological world
was shaken when the
Hobbit skeleton was found.
This was a tiny
species of hominin.
A rebuilt skeleton
stands at just 3 feet
7 inches but apparently
lived at the same time
as early modern humans.
The tale of how the oral
histories and the fossils,
dubbed Homofloresiensis,
could possibly be related
is the subject of Professor
Forth's new book "Between Ape
and Human."
Professor Forth, now retired,
was a Professor of Anthropology
at the University of Alberta
for more than three decades.
He first heard of the Apeman
from the Lio people of Flores
in the 1980s.
But what about this story
sounded like it might be true?
>> It's the way that people
were describing them,
and as animals, as
a kind of animal.
Not human beings, by the way.
The distinction is very
important for them,
as it is for most people.
But, at the same time, they're
beings that walked erect,
unlike any other animal and
otherwise looked human-like,
although they were very small--
or they are very small--
and somewhat hairier
than themselves.
>> The locals believe these
so-called Apemen are animals.
What else did they say
about these creatures?
>> The Apemen are credited by
some people with supernatural
powers, but then so are a bunch
of other animals on the island,
including very rare
turtles and crabs.
So, too, are monkeys,
local monkeys.
And, you know, I could go
on and extend the list.
So just to say that some
species have supernatural powers
doesn't mean that
it doesn't exist
as a physical natural being.
[RUMBLING]
>> Is it possible this is the
relative of an ancient species
of human, and are they
still alive on the island?
>> I say it's possible.
The best explanation,
in terms of the evidence
I have and in terms of
reason and logic and so on
is that they are descendants
of other non-sapiens hominin.
Whether anybody wants
believe that or not,
of course, is up to them.
This is the Sherlock
Holmes method.
You go through all the
possible explanations
and you exclude them one by one
in relation to the evidence,
and the one that remains
has got to be correct,
no matter how incredible
or improbable it may seem.
Now, you can criticize that
methodology a little bit,
but it is actually the way a lot
of science works as well, too.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> If this is true and there
is an ancient hominin still
living, hidden away from
humans for thousands of years,
then could there be other
creatures hidden around
the world?
>> Well, indeed, there
could be other creatures.
There is evidence for hominins,
not sapiens obviously,
but hominins on Flores
going back a million
or over a million years.
Now, that would give
whatever was there,
however it got there, that
would give it a lot of time
to evolve and to branch into
a number of different lines.
Floresiensis may be
just one of those.
There may be other things out
there, either under the ground
or in the jungles,
yet to be discovered.
>> Professor Forth encourages
any skeptics to read
the stories from
the eyewitnesses,
and decide for
yourself if it's true.
"Between Ape and
Human" is available
from all major booksellers.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[RUMBLING]
For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.